README.md, before:

# Physics Sim Grade 10 (محاكاة الفيزياء للصف العاشر)

![Project Banner](https://via.placeholder.com/1200x300?text=Physics+Sim+Grade+10)

## 🌍 Overview / نظرة عامة

**English:**
An interactive physics simulation application designed for Grade 10 students. This project aims to simplify complex physics concepts through engaging, visual, and interactive simulations. It covers key topics such as Vectors, Motion, and Forces, using a modern "Organic Geometry" design theme to create a calming and focused learning environment.

**العربية:**
تطبيق محاكاة فيزيائية تفاعلي مصمم لطلاب الصف العاشر. يهدف هذا المشروع إلى تبسيط مفاهيم الفيزياء المعقدة من خلال محاكاة جذابة ومرئية وتفاعلية. يغطي التطبيق موضوعات رئيسية مثل المتجهات، والحركة، والقوى، مستخدماً تصميم "الهندسة الحيوية" العصري لخلق بيئة تعليمية هادئة وتساعد على التركيز.

## 🚀 Features / المميزات

-   **Interactive Simulations:** Real-time manipulation of physics variables.
    -   *محاكاة تفاعلية:* تلاعب بمتغيرات الفيزياء في الوقت الفعلي.
-   **Bilingual Support:** Fully accessible in both Arabic and English.
    -   *دعم ثنائي اللغة:* متاح بالكامل باللغتين العربية والإنجليزية.
-   **Modern UI/UX:** "Organic Geometry" theme with soft colors and fluid animations.
    -   *واجهة مستخدم عصرية:* تصميم "الهندسة الحيوية" بألوان ناعمة ورسوم متحركة سلسة.
-   **Curriculum Aligned:** Specifically tailored for the Grade 10 physics curriculum.
    -   *متوافق مع المنهج:* مصمم خصيصاً لمنهج الفيزياء للصف العاشر.

## 📚 Topics Covered / الموضوعات المغطاة

1.  **Vectors (المتجهات):**
    -   Scalars vs Vectors (الكميات القياسية والمتجهة)
    -   Vector Addition & Subtraction (جمع وطرح المتجهات)
2.  **Motion (الحركة):**
    -   1D & 2D Motion (الحركة في بعد واحد وبعدين)
    -   Velocity, Acceleration, Displacement (السرعة، التسارع، الإزاحة)
3.  **Forces (القوى):**
    -   Newton's Laws (قوانين نيوتن)
    -   Action & Reaction (الفعل ورد الفعل)

## 🛠️ Tech Stack / التقنيات المستخدمة

-   **Frontend:** React, Vite, TailwindCSS, Framer Motion
-   **Backend:** Express
-   **Language:** TypeScript
-   **Package Manager:** pnpm

## 🏁 Getting Started / دليل البدء

### Prerequisites / المتطلبات
-   Node.js (v18+)
-   pnpm

### Installation / التثبيت

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/al-swaiti/physics-sim-grade10.git
    cd physics-sim-grade10
    ```

2.  Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    pnpm install
    ```

3.  Start the development server:
    ```bash
    pnpm dev
    ```

4.  Open your browser at `http://localhost:5173`

## 🤝 Contributing / المساهمة

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
نرحب بالمساهمات! لا تتردد في إرسال طلب سحب (Pull Request).

## 📄 License / الترخيص

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
هذا المشروع مرخص بموجب رخصة MIT.

Commit message:

Setup professional project management (CONTRIBUTING, Issue Templates)

README.md, after:

# Physics Sim Grade 10 (محاكاة الفيزياء للصف العاشر)

![Project Banner](https://via.placeholder.com/1200x300?text=Physics+Sim+Grade+10)

## 🌍 Overview / نظرة عامة

**English:**
An interactive physics simulation application designed for Grade 10 students. This project aims to simplify complex physics concepts through engaging, visual, and interactive simulations. It covers key topics such as Vectors, Motion, and Forces, using a modern "Organic Geometry" design theme to create a calming and focused learning environment.

**العربية:**
تطبيق محاكاة فيزيائية تفاعلي مصمم لطلاب الصف العاشر. يهدف هذا المشروع إلى تبسيط مفاهيم الفيزياء المعقدة من خلال محاكاة جذابة ومرئية وتفاعلية. يغطي التطبيق موضوعات رئيسية مثل المتجهات، والحركة، والقوى، مستخدماً تصميم "الهندسة الحيوية" العصري لخلق بيئة تعليمية هادئة وتساعد على التركيز.

## 🚀 Features / المميزات

-   **Interactive Simulations:** Real-time manipulation of physics variables.
    -   *محاكاة تفاعلية:* تلاعب بمتغيرات الفيزياء في الوقت الفعلي.
-   **Bilingual Support:** Fully accessible in both Arabic and English.
    -   *دعم ثنائي اللغة:* متاح بالكامل باللغتين العربية والإنجليزية.
-   **Modern UI/UX:** "Organic Geometry" theme with soft colors and fluid animations.
    -   *واجهة مستخدم عصرية:* تصميم "الهندسة الحيوية" بألوان ناعمة ورسوم متحركة سلسة.
-   **Curriculum Aligned:** Specifically tailored for the Grade 10 physics curriculum.
    -   *متوافق مع المنهج:* مصمم خصيصاً لمنهج الفيزياء للصف العاشر.

## 📚 Topics Covered / الموضوعات المغطاة

1.  **Vectors (المتجهات):**
    -   Scalars vs Vectors (الكميات القياسية والمتجهة)
    -   Vector Addition & Subtraction (جمع وطرح المتجهات)
2.  **Motion (الحركة):**
    -   1D & 2D Motion (الحركة في بعد واحد وبعدين)
    -   Velocity, Acceleration, Displacement (السرعة، التسارع، الإزاحة)
3.  **Forces (القوى):**
    -   Newton's Laws (قوانين نيوتن)
    -   Action & Reaction (الفعل ورد الفعل)

## 🛠️ Tech Stack / التقنيات المستخدمة

-   **Frontend:** React, Vite, TailwindCSS, Framer Motion
-   **Backend:** Express
-   **Language:** TypeScript
-   **Package Manager:** pnpm

## 🏁 Getting Started / دليل البدء

### Prerequisites / المتطلبات
-   Node.js (v18+)
-   pnpm

### Installation / التثبيت

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/al-swaiti/physics-sim-grade10.git
    cd physics-sim-grade10
    ```

2.  Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    pnpm install
    ```

3.  Start the development server:
    ```bash
    pnpm dev
    ```

4.  Open your browser at `http://localhost:5173`

## 🗺️ Roadmap / خارطة الطريق

See [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/al-swaiti/physics-sim-grade10/issues) for planned features and development tasks.

-   **Phase 1:** Multimedia Integration (Veo 3, Gemini 3)
-   **Phase 2:** Interactive Exercises
-   **Phase 3:** UX & Pedagogical Improvements

## 🤝 Contributing / المساهمة

We follow a professional **Issue-Driven Development** workflow.
Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to contribute.

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a feature branch.
3.  Open a Pull Request linked to an Issue.

## 📄 License / الترخيص

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
هذا المشروع مرخص بموجب رخصة MIT.
